data-prepper-plugins/http-source/README.md, before:

# Log HTTP Source

This is a source plugin that supports HTTP protocol. Currently ONLY support Json UTF-8 codec for incoming request, e.g. 
`[{"key1": "value1"}, {"key2": "value2"}]`.


## Usages
Currently, we are exposing `/log/ingest` URI path for http log ingestion. Example `.yaml` configuration:
```
source:
    - http:
```

### Response status

* `200`: the request data has been successfully written into the buffer.
* `400`: the request data is either in mal-format or unsupported codec.
* `413`: the request data size is larger than the configured capacity.
* `415`: the request fails to be written into the buffer within the timeout.
* `429`: the request has been rejected due to the HTTP source executor being in full capacity.

## Configurations

* port(Optional) => An `int` between 0 and 65535 represents the port source is running on. Default is ```2021```.
* request_timeout(Optional) => An `int` larger than 0 represents request timeout in millis. Default is ```10_000```. 
* thread_count(Optional) => An `int` larger than 0 represents the number of threads to keep in the ScheduledThreadPool. Default is `200`.
* max_connection_count(Optional) => An `int` larger than 0 represents the maximum allowed number of open connections. Default is `500`.
* max_pending_requests(Optional) => An `int` larger than 0 represents the maximum allowed number of tasks in the ScheduledThreadPool work queue. Default is `1024`.

### SSL

* ssl(Optional) => A `boolean` enables TLS/SSL. Default is ```true```.
* ssl_certificate_file(Optional) => A `String` represents the SSL certificate chain file path. Required if ```ssl``` is set to ```true```.
* ssl_key_file(Optional) => A `String` represents the SSL key file path. Only decrypted key file is supported. Required if ```ssl``` is set to ```true```.

## Metrics

### Counter
- `requestsReceived`: measures total number of requests received by `/log/ingest` endpoint.
- `requestsRejected`: measures total number of requests rejected (429 response status code) by HTTP source plugin.
- `successRequests`: measures total number of requests successfully processed (200 response status code) by HTTP source plugin.
- `badRequests`: measures total number of requests with invalid content type or format processed by HTTP source plugin (400 response status code).
- `requestTimeouts`: measures total number of requests that time out in the HTTP source server (415 response status code).
- `requestsTooLarge`: measures total number of requests of which the events size in the content is larger than the buffer capacity (413 response status code).
- `internalServerError`: measures total number of requests processed by the HTTP source with custom exception type (500 response status code).

### Timer
- `requestProcessDuration`: measures latency of requests processed by the HTTP source plugin in seconds. 

### Distribution Summary
- `payloadSize`: measures the distribution of incoming requests payload sizes in bytes.

## Developer Guide
This plugin is compatible with Java 14. See 
- [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) 
- [monitoring](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/docs/monitoring.md)

Commit message:

Support HTTP Basic authentication on the HTTP source plugin. This uses the plugin framework to provide the authentication so that it can be customized without having to change the HTTP Source plugin itself. Resolves #464 (#545)
Signed-off-by: David Venable <dlv@amazon.com>

data-prepper-plugins/http-source/README.md, after:

# Log HTTP Source

This is a source plugin that supports HTTP protocol. Currently ONLY support Json UTF-8 codec for incoming request, e.g. 
`[{"key1": "value1"}, {"key2": "value2"}]`.


## Usages
Currently, we are exposing `/log/ingest` URI path for http log ingestion. Example `.yaml` configuration:
```
source:
    - http:
```

### Response status

* `200`: the request data has been successfully written into the buffer.
* `400`: the request data is either in mal-format or unsupported codec.
* `413`: the request data size is larger than the configured capacity.
* `415`: the request fails to be written into the buffer within the timeout.
* `429`: the request has been rejected due to the HTTP source executor being in full capacity.

## Configurations

* port(Optional) => An `int` between 0 and 65535 represents the port source is running on. Default is ```2021```.
* request_timeout(Optional) => An `int` larger than 0 represents request timeout in millis. Default is ```10_000```. 
* thread_count(Optional) => An `int` larger than 0 represents the number of threads to keep in the ScheduledThreadPool. Default is `200`.
* max_connection_count(Optional) => An `int` larger than 0 represents the maximum allowed number of open connections. Default is `500`.
* max_pending_requests(Optional) => An `int` larger than 0 represents the maximum allowed number of tasks in the ScheduledThreadPool work queue. Default is `1024`.
* authentication(Optional) => An authentication configuration. By default, this runs an unauthenticated server. See below for more information.

### Authentication Configurations

By default, the HTTP source input is unauthenticated.

The following is an example of how to run the server with HTTP Basic authentication:

```yaml
source:
  http:
    authentication:
      http_basic:
        username: my-user
        password: my_s3cr3t
```

You can also explicitly disable authentication with:

```yaml
source:
  http:
    authentication:
      unauthenticated:
```

This plugin uses pluggable authentication. To provide custom authentication,
create a plugin which implements [`ArmeriaAuthenticationProvider`](../armeria-common/src/main/java/com/amazon/dataprepper/armeria/authentication/ArmeriaAuthenticationProvider.java)


### SSL

* ssl(Optional) => A `boolean` enables TLS/SSL. Default is ```true```.
* ssl_certificate_file(Optional) => A `String` represents the SSL certificate chain file path. Required if ```ssl``` is set to ```true```.
* ssl_key_file(Optional) => A `String` represents the SSL key file path. Only decrypted key file is supported. Required if ```ssl``` is set to ```true```.

## Metrics

### Counter
- `requestsReceived`: measures total number of requests received by `/log/ingest` endpoint.
- `requestsRejected`: measures total number of requests rejected (429 response status code) by HTTP source plugin.
- `successRequests`: measures total number of requests successfully processed (200 response status code) by HTTP source plugin.
- `badRequests`: measures total number of requests with invalid content type or format processed by HTTP source plugin (400 response status code).
- `requestTimeouts`: measures total number of requests that time out in the HTTP source server (415 response status code).
- `requestsTooLarge`: measures total number of requests of which the events size in the content is larger than the buffer capacity (413 response status code).
- `internalServerError`: measures total number of requests processed by the HTTP source with custom exception type (500 response status code).

### Timer
- `requestProcessDuration`: measures latency of requests processed by the HTTP source plugin in seconds. 

### Distribution Summary
- `payloadSize`: measures the distribution of incoming requests payload sizes in bytes.

## Developer Guide
This plugin is compatible with Java 14. See 
- [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) 
- [monitoring](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/docs/monitoring.md)
